- [Instructor] In our last example,
you might've wondered if an array could have been used
to group the rooms instead of a collection.
That's a valid point, but using collections overcomes
a few disadvantages of an array.
Let's walk through some examples and I'll show you.
Arrays have a fixed size
because the space for an array must be allocated
for the number of objects that we intend to store.
So if I want to declare a new room array,
I need to know the number of elements
that I'll be storing up front.
Then I need to store each room within its index
in the array.
This can lead to one-off errors
that throw index out of bounds exceptions.
And if you look closely,
you'll notice that we already have one.
I wanted to declare an array of size three, but instead,
I've declared an array of size two.
That would have threw an error.
Now, when we work with collections,
we don't have these sorts of problems.
It's relatively easy to instantiate a collection
and add elements into it.
You'll notice that I do not have to declare
the size of the collection upfront.
And if I want to add elements into the collection,
I don't have to be concerned about a couple of things.
So first, I don't have to worry
about specifying the index of the element that I'm adding.
I also don't have to worry about the collection filling up
and getting an index out of bounds exception.
When we work with an array,
we don't get this sort of flexibility.
You'll notice that our array is currently full.
We have three indexes
and there's three elements stored within it.
If we would like to add a new element into this array,
we actually have to make a copy of it.
Here's how we do it.
First, we declare an array that is slightly larger
than our original array.
So I'm going to make this an array of size four.
Then I'm going to use the array copy method
on the system class.
I pass in the original array, then I pass in the new array
and then I specify the indexes that I'm interested in.
Okay, now we have a new array with some space in it.
I'm then going to store the new room in the last index
within our new array.
So I'll just subtract one from its length
and then I'm going to store the room into that index.
Now, you might get the idea to build your own objects
that handle the operations
that you'll need to perform on the array.
You'll get some reusability with this approach,
but at that point, you've started to replicate the features
provided by the collections framework.
The best case is that you'll be less productive
and the worst case is that you'll build
a buggy implementation.
By using Java's out-of-the-box collections
instead of arrays, you'll save time
by avoiding these types of situations
and you'll write better code.